# Working Title Goes Here

## Abstract or so

Cooperation is key for groups and societies to function, where social norms help safeguarding such cooperation. Many societies have norms of prosociality, while others have norms that foster anti-social behavior like corrupt collaboration. These contradicting sets of norms, raise two questions: First, how do groups resolve contradicting norms of rule following when they switch from one environment to the other? Second, to which extent are partners who signal behaviors that are in line with the norms of the respective environment preferred over those who do not? Here we expect rule following and partner choice to be consistent with the norms respective to their environments. We argue for reputation-based partner choice along with partner switching as the underlying mechanisms for driving the effects of environmental consistency. We conclude that over time, groups can adapt to and prefer partnerships consistent with the norms of the environment they are in. 

Social norms such as, for instance, rule following are key for groups and entire societies to function. 

Social norms such as, for instance, rule following guide entire societies. Rule following is [def].  

Cooperation is key for groups and entire societies to function. Norms help to achieve such cooperation [ex]. 

Importantly, social norms are crucial for safeguarding cooperation. Social norms are [def]. Specifically, injunctive norms are [def], while descriptive norms are [def]. Rule following, for example, is widely researched. [research]. [example].

