# Aggregated Feedback

## Content 

**Include**
- Would extend – talk about the environment, incentives in the environment – why do some groups/societies have norms of trust, cooperation, and morality, while others establish norms that foster anti-social behavior? Then, you can also connect your examples to a broader theoretical foundation.
- Why moral? Why not simply trustworthy / signal willingness of pro-sociality (which is more clearly defined in the literature)? 
- What are biological markets? Define!
- You need to talk about the role of partner selection, not only mention it as a sidenote.
- Again, this are interesting examples, but it is not clear for what exactly, because your theoretical foundation is lacking. 

**Reuse**
- This is good; You introduce  a new theoretical  concept (asymmetry) and then clearly define it with abstract  (resources etc.) and “real life”(banks etc.) examples. 
- Why not talk about this study (Keizer, Lindenberg, & Steg, 2008) in more detail instead of using broad real-life examples that may lose their relevancy in some years from now.

**Introduce**
- rule-following scores
- environment
  - fair
  - corrupt
  - anchoring

## Structure

1. Do individuals follow rules differently across environments?
2. And are they chosen differently across those environments? 

3. RQ: Can switching from a corrupt environment to a fair environment make individuals more rule following?
4. RQ: Are dishonest partners preferred in corrupt environments and prosocial partners preferred in fair environmnents?

### In a nutshell - Intro

Cooperation such as rule following, for instance, is key for societies to function. [def]. [ex]. However, groups can also collaborate to violate rules. Previous research has hightlighted the importance of incentives in social environments and partner choice in solving these seemingly contradictory behaviors. 

Environments
When in groups, those individuals who are able to choose others for partnership, prefer those who signal their willingness to reciprocate, and with increasing availability of partners, competitors become increasingly altruistic. 

Reversely, instead of signaling altruism, competitors can also signal their willigness to defect, especially in anonymous settings. Similarly to altruism, corruption has been shown to breed corruption. [ex]. 

In addition, rule following has been shown to carry over when switching from one social environment to another, with each environment having its own social norms. Specifically, norms have been shown to carry over to corrupt environments. [milinski]. 

Partner choice
Not only social environments have been shown to influence rule following, but partner choice as well. Specifically, individuals who are able to choose group members for partnership can choose to include or exclude members, thereby enforcing desirable behaviors as well as implicitly punishing less desirable behaviors. 

### Argument in more detail

Individuals compete to choose and be chosen for social interactions. This is called a biological market. But unlike economic markets where goods and services are traded, biological markets mainly focus on the ability and willingness to benefit others. For instance, peers, non-peers [ex]. Biological markets are therefore a place where individuals are required to cooperate through quality signaling and partner choice. However, markets do not exist in a vacuum, rather, in an environment that shapes interactions through its incentive structure, and it is this structure that can shape individuals' signals and which partners they choose. 

Cooperation can be both costly and beneficial. To mitigate costs individuals therefore draw on signals of trustworthiness. Specifically, signals of indirect reciprocity are commonly used as an index of such trustworthiness through reputation. Since people update their public opinions of others, they are also suspect to such updating by others and, in turn, manage their own reputation. 

Partner choice is an integral part of biological markets. [def]. Those who choose have been shown to prefer the willingness to confer benefits over the availability to do so. [ex]. In addition, those choosing have been shown to enforce which qualities are desirable by excluding competitors to maximize their profit. [ex]. However, who gets chosen has been found to be conditional on the goals of the individual choosing. For instance, in a prosocial environment individuals prosocial behavior is preferred [ref] and, therefore, leads to cooperation. [ex]. However, individuals also cooperate to corrupt. In fact, in a corrupt environment, people have been shown to prefer corrupt collaboration, the joint violation of rules for the sake of gaining benefits. H1. 

Moreover, both prosociality and corrupt collaboration can manifest as social norms over time. Social norms are commonly defined as behaviors that should be commonly acted out (i.e., injunctive norms) or are indeed commonly acted out (i.e., descriptive norms). [ex]. Previous research has examined these concepts by looking at rule-following behavior. In addition, behavior has been shown to breed behavior with prosociality increasing the frequency of following prosociality. Specifically, [blabla] have shown the impact of descriptive norms of a neighborhood on household electricity consumption. Similarly, corruption has been shown to breed corruption. [blabla] has shown that. 

### Full-fledged

- [blabla] showed that those choosing their partners prioritize the willingness to confer benefits over the ability to do so as fairness outweighed wealth.      
- When individuals cooperate there are costs and benefits for at least one of the involved parties, and costs pose a risk to all involved. To shield themselves from being exploited, parties evaluate how trustworthy others are. [ex]. In fact, individuals readily signal their trustworthiness to show others that they are able and willing to cooperate. For instance, charity [ex]. Also, research has shown that the willingness outweighs the ability to confer benefits on others. [ex]. Importantly, signals are considered reliable when they are rather costly for some to perform or others do not possess the qualities in the first place. [ex]. Therefore, cooperation requires some form of safety from the parties involved. 
- [reciprocity] Reciprocity is a well documented way of safeguarding cooperation and is most likely when group members know each other. Evolutionary mechanisms, for instance, point to kin selection where individuals are more likely to reciprocate help from relatives than non-relatives, and group selection where individuals serve the existence of a group and, thereby, reciprocate. However, in the face of globalization, individuals interact less frequently with and do not necessarily know each other which, in turn, gradually removes incentives to reciprocate. [ex]. Therefore, cooperation in anonymous groups requires another mechanism. 
- Indirect reciprocity is a well documented way of safeguarding cooperation when group members do not know each other and social interactions are limited to one. This form of reciprocity occurs when an observer helps an individual because the observer saw that individual helping someone else. [ex]. Indirect reciprocity is the underlying mechanism of reputation, the public opinion of a person [def]. [ex]. Therefore, individuals use the reputation of others to evaluate whether they are a good interaction partner. 
- Reputation has been described as a universal currency for social interactions, and individuals treat it as such. In fact, individuals keep score of others' signals, a concept called updating strategy. For instance, research has investigated the standing strategy where, in the context of helping, all group members start out with a good standing and loose their good standing if they fail to help, thus, reducing their score. However, this model did not prevail over another strategy, the scoring strategy. This model holds that group members' reputation scores rise and fall with their acts of help. [ex]. Such updating strategies are reason for individuals to deliberately manage their reputation. [ex]. Therefore, individuals manage and care about others' impressions of them. 


- Reputation is useful in biological markets where individuals compete to choose and be chosen as interaction partners. Specifically, individuals choose who they want to interact with such as their partners, friends, and colleagues at work, and in doing so they choose those who display desirable qualities and abandon those who do not. Different from economic markets where individuals trade goods or services, biological markets focus on the trade of the ability and willingness to confer benefits on others. Hunter gatherer tribes [ex]. Importantly, the willingness to benefit outweighs the ability to do so. For instance, [blabla] found that generousity prevails over productivity [ex]. Reputation therefore plays a vital role in biological markets. 
- Integral to biological markets is partner choice, the process of individuals choosing others as interaction partners, and in addition to the inherent property of biological markets of creating incentive structures, asymmetries in partner choice often exist. Asymmetric partner choice occurs when some individuals have more potential partners at their disposal and ready to choose from than others. [ex]. These asymmetries in partner choice also fortify already existing incentives. [ex]. Therefore, partner choice asymmetrically incentivizes qualities and thereby increases pressures to be categorized as a good interaction partner. 
- Importantly, partner choice is contingent on qualities that are considered desirable. Specifically, cooperators are more likely to be chosen while non-cooperators are more likely to be abandoned. For instance, when it is desirable to follow rules [ex]. Reversely, when it is desirable to violate rules [ex]. Therefore, partner choice determines rule following. 


- One important component in biological markets is partner choice. Partner choice is operationally defined as [def]. When some individuals have more potential partners at their disposal and ready to choose from while others do not, asymmetries in partner choice exist. When partner choice asymmetries exist in biological markets, incentive structures are established with desirable behaviors being unilaterally enforced and undesirable behaviors implicitly punished. Since biological markets enforce desirable behaviors and implicitly punish undesirable behaviors

- biological markets
- partner choice
- signaling trustworthiness: reciprocity (prosociality / anti-social behavior)
  - partner switching
- competitive altruism

In addition, the possibility of partner switching increases competition among group members for desirable behaviors. 

However, different from previous research, participants dynamically learn each others' rule following scores. 

Dump
- In this regard, individuals who signal their trustworthiness appear more attractive to others for future social interactions. Specifically, signaling theory holds that when parties have different information they can resolve the problem by honestly communicating, also called signaling, their ability and willingness to cooperate. For instance, individuals [ex].
- In order to do so, individuals signal their trustworthiness to others and they do so by showing that they reciprocate. direct reciprocity is one way of such safety and occurs when, say, person A asks person B for a favor and person B returns the favor directly to person A. 
- Rule following has been studied widely in behavioral economics, where economic games have shown that rule following increases in step-level games as opposed to one-shot games.  
- This competition has been shown to reverse, so that competitors become more corrupt when anonymity exists in addition to other factors. 
- narrow demand and thereby broaden supply, inadvertently increasing competition. 
- Reputation draws on signaling theory with reputation being a social measure of multiple signals over time and, importantly, individuals keep score of others' reputation. This is also known as image scoring. 
- Therefore, the benefits and selection pressures that come with biological markets establish incentive structures where some benefits are more desirable than others. 

When 

- cooperation
  - 
- social norms
  - rule following and norms
  - corrupt collaboration and common norms
- social environments
  - why follow/incentives
    - (reputation)
    - signaling theory
    - reciprocity
      - competitive altruism
  - why violate/incentives
  - switching environments
  - anchoring environments
- partner choice
  - biological markets
  - partner switching

### More detailed

- **social norms/rules**
  - rule-following (scores)
  - why individuals/groups/societies have norms to follow rules 
    - prosociality
    - why do they have norms of trust, cooperation, and morality 
  - and why individuals/groups/societies have norms to violate rules
    - corrupt collaboration 
    - why do they foster anti-social behaviors [find factors] 


- **and that depends on partner choice**, those who choose them as interaction partners **(RQ1)**
  - biological markets: individuals interact in groups and their behaviors function as resources (similar to economic markets)
  - signaling theory: individuals want to show others some of their characteristics
  - reputation (management): individuals have impressions of others that develop over time
  - reciprocity: individuals expect others to return favors and benefits


- **and that depends on their social environments (RQ2)**
