# Feedback 

## Written Feedback

### Skype Session (10-06-2020)

**Ask**
- buzz words in results section: frequency, modulate, increase, depend
- as someone more experienced, how long does it take you to write a paper by now? 

**Feedback**
- intro
- methods
  - connect tasks back to intro asked to follow rules but costly, but has benefits; or hypothetical 
  - die rolling: expect 6es and what partners to expect, binary tree going through options (briefly for hypotheses)
  - experimental tasks (theoretical level): what they measure, then implement, then order, number of rounds
- results
  - most important, then what follows...
  - what i test, conclude, and order everything well
  - partner choices [manipulation checks], partner selectors
  - behavioral; frequency/propensity of rule following; what is surprising (put it at the end)
  - condition 1/2 labels
  - at end of methods, outline analysis, use R package to derive p-values
- discussion
  - dishonesty and bankers, especially when framing task in their profession (https://www.nature.com/articles/nature13977)
  - connect to intro (what have we learned?)


### Aggregated 

**Include**
- Would extend – talk about the environment, incentives in the environment – why do some groups/societies have norms of trust, cooperation, and morality, while others establish norms that foster anti-social behavior? Then, you can also connect your examples to a broader theoretical foundation.
- Why moral? Why not simply trustworthy / signal willingness of pro-sociality (which is more clearly defined in the literature)? 
- What are biological markets? Define!
- You need to talk about the role of partner selection, not only mention it as a sidenote.
- Again, this are interesting examples, but it is not clear for what exactly, because your theoretical foundation is lacking. 

**Reuse**
- This is good; You introduce  a new theoretical  concept (asymmetry) and then clearly define it with abstract  (resources etc.) and “real life”(banks etc.) examples. 
- Why not talk about this study (Keizer, Lindenberg, & Steg, 2008) in more detail instead of using broad real-life examples that may lose their relevancy in some years from now.

### In Detail

- examples
  - connect examples better to theory/concepts under investigation
  - rather stick to studies than broad real-life examples: explain the experimental setup

- structure
    - use operational definitions
    - too broad at the end of paragraphs

- title 
    - does not make sense 
    - too unspecific

- abstract 
  - too unspecific and broad
  - define environments
  - remove leadership example for implications
  - define all terms
  - his summary
    - define terms
    - unclear what it's about
    - unclear what I did 

- introduction
  - his summary
    - structure is missing, foundation, research question
    - transitions and "storyline" missing 
    - examples are arbitrary, not theoretical
    - avoid hyperbolic or metaphorical statements (too vague)
    - concepts not clearly defined
    - sentences copied from other papers
  - too unscientific
  - terms without context
  - company marketing example out of place; better for reputation management
  - competition does not typically lead to trust and cooperation (use strong evidence)
  - more on partner selection (use biological markets as entry point)
  - more theoretical foundation, instead of examples
  - avoid metaphors if they are not theoretically grounded
  - copied sentences from other papers including his

- references
  - use scientific statements, not psychological assessments or the like
  - describe studies 

- method section
  - avoid add-ins -> find a better structure
