# Resources

## Cooperation

- Humans frequently cooperate to achieve mutual goals. Successful cooperation can lead to better performance, higher innovation, and better overall outcomes (e.g., Rusbult & Van Lange, 2003). Providing people with the freedom to seek trustworthy partners and abandon free riders helps to develop and safeguard cooperation (Efferson, Roca, Vogt, & Helbing, 2016; Rand, Arbesman, & Christakis, 2011). (Ethical Free Riding: When Honest People Find Dishonest Partners)
- Once cooperation is established, a complex evolution takes place, which depends on the size ofthe population, the cost-to- benefit ratio, the average number of rounds and the probability of errors. 32,34,35. A substantial part ofour life is spent in the company of strangers4, and many transactions are nolonger face-to-face. The growth of web-based auctions and other forms ofe-commerce is built, to a considerable degree, on reputation and trust5–10. The possibility to exploit such trust raises what economists call moral hazards. How effective is reputation, especially if information is only partial  (Evolution of indirect reciprocity)

 
## Norms

- Centralized Sanctions and Leadership In contrast to most recent experimental studies ofnorms and sanctions, real-world collective action groups generally place restrictions on who can punish whom for violating norms (e.g., Ostrom 2000). For instance, the responsibility for monitoring and sanctioning others’ behaviors might be alternated among group members (O’Gorman et al. 2009) or based implicitly on who has more power or influence in the group (e.g., Przepiorka & Diekmann 2013). Perhaps most commonly, the ability to sanction others’ behaviors is often vested in an explicitly designated leader (van Vugt & De Cremer 1999). (Beyond Altruism: Sociologi)
- descriptive norms influencing behavior: household study on electricity usage in the neighbourhood [ref] 

## Signaling theory

- Gintis et al. (2001) show that cooperation can evolve as a costly signal of an unobservable but relevant quality, if this quality is causally related to an individual’s ability to cooperate (see also Leimar 1997; Roberts 1998; Lotem et al. 2003; Smith & Bliege Bird 2005). In the simplest case, there are high- quality and low-quality types who incur low costs (c1) or high costs (c2 > c1), respectively, from sending the signal. If the benefits (s) from being interacted with, conditional on having sent the signal, compensate the high-quality types but not the low-quality types (c2 > s > c1), only the high-quality types can afford to send it and thus will be identified as such. If, (Charitable giving as a signal of trustworthiness: Disentangling the signaling benefits of altruistic acts)
- Many actions function to signal one’s ability to confer benefits on partners, from athletic displays for signalling physical abilities, conspicuous consumption for signalling wealth (e.g., [5]), frequent affiliation with high status individuals to signal social connectedness, even war her- oism signalling strength and courage [6]. Extravagant generosity may do the same, including philanthropy to signal wealth, or sharing hunted game to signal physical abilities (e.g., [7]). These examples are reliable signals of underlying qualities because they would be impossible or disproportionately costly for those who do not possess those qualities [8?]. 
  - People tend to target wealthy, high-ability, and well-con- nected individuals for partnerships because of the benefits of pairing with them. Thus, people who are central in social networks receive more generosity from friends [9], healthy-looking people are more likely to have their trust reciprocated [10], and those wearing luxury brands are more likely to be hired or have their requests granted [5]. This principle generalizes beyond humanity: even rats and trout will cooperate more often with partners who are more effective or productive collaborators [11,12]. 
  - Good partners are not only able to confer benefits, but willing to do so. Indeed, the latter is deemed more important among hunter gatherers [13]. Many traits that we deem ‘nice’ are cues of others’ willingness to confer benefits [14]. For example, charitable giving is seen as a cue of trustworthiness [15], especially when the giver receives no personal benefits for giving [16]. Benefits to us are especially valued: ‘friends’ are partners who greatly value us and are emotionally committed to conferring benefits upon us, and vice versa. We distinguish between true friends and ‘fair weather friends’ by the attention they give us [17], especially when such attention is costly [18]; those who do not honestly value us would rather invest their limited attention elsewhere [19]. We can also assess others’ cooperativeness based on whether they deliberate before helping, because good allies (e.g., true friends) help without calculating the costs [20?]. These various actions become inputs in our estimations of others’ future behav- iour towards us (see [21], on ‘welfare trade-off ratios’), which then affects who we trust and partner with. (Biological markets and the effects of partner choice on cooperation and friendship)

### Reciprocity

- kin selection, group selection, reciprocal altruism (Evolution of indirect reciprocity by image scoring)

### Reputation

- This shows the strong relationship between reciprocity, trust and reputation as described by Ostrom [12]. Nowak & Sigmund [32,33] showed by both computer simu- lations and an analytical model that cooperation through indirect reciprocity can evolve if everybody has an ‘image score’ that is increased by one point after each act of helping and is decreased by one point after each act of refused help.(Reputation, a universal currency for human social interactions)
- In the last decade, perhaps no mechanism promoting cooperation and prosocial behavior has received as much attention as reputation. Once viewed as secondary to material incentives, the reputational rewards that go to those who behave in generous or cooperative ways are now also viewed as a powerful force shaping prosocial action. Researchers generally conceive of reputation as the “set of judgments a community makes about the personal qualities of one of its members” (Emler 1990, p. 171). Here we are particularly concerned with reputational judgments with moral content, specifically judgments of a person’s cooperativeness, trustworthiness, or generosity. (Beyond Altruism: Sociologi)
- Here, we retain the original term "generalized reciprocity", which proposes that people expect to receive benefits from other in-group members, especially if they have a positive reputation (Yamagishi et al., 1999) (Unbounded indirect reciprocity: Is reputation-based cooperation bounded by group membership?)

## Corruption

- no differences in corruption across countries (Cut From the Same Cloth:
Similarly Dishonest Individuals Across Countries)
- In collaborative settings in which people work together, one’s behavior may affect the partner’s behavior. Indeed, unethical behavior, such as helping someone else cheat on an exam, can be learned from observing peers, colleagues, and even strangers (O’Fallon & Butterfield, 2012). Merely seeing someone lie facilitates imitation of such behavior (Kocher, Schudy, & Spantig, 2017; Soraperra et al., 2017), being exposed to norm violations increases subsequent norm violation (Keizer, Lindenberg, & Steg, 2008), and the more prevalent cor- ruption is in a country, the more likely people from that country are to violate rules (Gächter & Schulz, 2016). Furthermore, because people do not like to be excluded (Kurzban & Leary, 2001), and are even willing to violate rules that benefit the group to avoid being excluded (Thau, Derfler-Rozin, Pitesa, Mitchell, & Pillutla, 2015), honest people might adapt their behav- ior and start lying to prevent their dishonest partners from leaving them. (Research Article
Ethical Free Riding: When Honest People Find Dishonest Partners)
- However, cooperation is also an essential part of corruption (Köbis, van Prooijen, Righetti, & Van Lange, 2016; Weisel & Shalvi, 2015). People often engage in corrupt collaboration—the attainment of per- sonal profits by joint acts of rule violation (Weisel & Shalvi, 2015). (Ethical Free Riding: When Honest People Find Dishonest Partners)

### Dishonesty 

- Previous studies have revealed that working with other people leads to more dishonesty than working alone (Conrads, Irlenbusch, Rilke, & Walkowitz, 2013; Gino, Ayal, & Ariely, 2013; Sutter, 2009; Weisel & Shalvi, 2015), prosocial lies breed trust (Levine & Schweitzer, 2015), and working with the same partner over time increases bribery as people develop trust (Abbink, 2004). Outside the laboratory, however, people can often choose how long and with whom to interact. Do dishonest people search for a dishonest partner—a “partner in crime”? dishonesty. Such behavior is comparable with free riding in a public- goods dilemma in which people may profit from others’ contributions to a public good while not contributing themselves (Andreoni, 1988). (Ethical Free Riding: When Honest People Find Dishonest Partners)

## Partner Choice

- The ability to choose partners allows people who are willing to violate rules (in the present case, lie) to increase personal profit by abandoning those who are not willing to cooperate (Reuben & Stephenson, 2013). studies have shown that people do not lie much, even when lying is profitable (Abeler, Nosenzo, & Raymond, 2016); they avoid situations that may tempt them to lie (Fishbach, Friedman, & Kruglanski, 2003); and they prefer to interact with those who are similar (Currarini, Jackson, & Pin, 2009). people care about seeing themselves as moral but at the the same time seek to maximize personal profit (Mazar, Amir, & Ariely, 2008). To maintain such an honest self- image, people use various self-serving justifications when violating rules (Ayal & Gino, 2011; Shalvi, Gino, Barkan, & Ayal, 2015). (Ethical Free Riding: When Honest People Find Dishonest Partners)
- 