# Working Title Goes Here

## Removed

**Dump**
- In this regard, individuals who signal their trustworthiness appear more attractive to others for future social interactions. Specifically, signaling theory holds that when parties have different information they can resolve the problem by honestly communicating, also called signaling, their ability and willingness to cooperate. For instance, individuals [ex].
- In order to do so, individuals signal their trustworthiness to others and they do so by showing that they reciprocate. direct reciprocity is one way of such safety and occurs when, say, person A asks person B for a favor and person B returns the favor directly to person A. 
- Rule following has been studied widely in behavioral economics, where economic games have shown that rule following increases in step-level games as opposed to one-shot games.  
- This competition has been shown to reverse, so that competitors become more corrupt when anonymity exists in addition to other factors. 
- narrow demand and thereby broaden supply, inadvertently increasing competition. 
- Reputation draws on signaling theory with reputation being a social measure of multiple signals over time and, importantly, individuals keep score of others' reputation. This is also known as image scoring. 
- Therefore, the benefits and selection pressures that come with biological markets establish incentive structures where some benefits are more desirable than others. 
- and in addition to the inherent property of biological markets of creating incentive structures, asymmetries in partner choice often exist.
- In addition, the possibility of partner switching increases competition among group members for desirable behaviors. 
- However, different from previous research, participants dynamically learn each others' rule following scores. 
- [blabla] have shown that those choosing enforce which qualities are desirable by excluding undesirable competitors to maximize their profit. 
- Asymmetries in partner choice often exist. Asymmetric partner choice occurs when some individuals have more potential partners at their disposal and ready to choose from than others. [ex]. These asymmetries in partner choice also fortify already existing incentives. [ex]. Therefore, partner choice asymmetrically incentivizes qualities and thereby increases pressures to be categorized as a good interaction partner. 
  - When partner choice asymmetries exist in biological markets, incentive structures are established with desirable behaviors being unilaterally enforced and undesirable behaviors implicitly punished.
- Biological markets are therefore a place where individuals are required to cooperate through quality signaling. 
- However, markets do not exist in a vacuum, rather, in an environment that shapes interactions through its incentive structure, and it is this structure that can shape individuals' signals and which partners they choose. 
- and in doing so they choose those who display desirable qualities. 
- Importantly, both prosocial and corrupt behavior can exacerbate, thus increase in frequency, and both can influence the other, potentially diminishing either prosocial or corrupt behavior. 
- Cooperation becomes rather asymmetric when only one individual in a group can choose who to interact with, which creates selection pressures for potential cooperators. However, which individuals are preferred has been shown to depend on the incentives of the social environment. In prosocial environments, prosociality is preferred and in corrupt environments, corrupt collaboration is preferred. These propensities can exacerbate with each behavior increasing in frequency in its respective environment. In addition, these propensities can spillover from one environment to another. 
- Specifically, competitive altruism 
- by maximizing gains and avoiding losses that follow from their chosen interaction partners. 
- [blabla] have shown the impact of descriptive norms of a neighborhood on household electricity consumption 


## Abstract or so

Cooperation is key for groups and societies to function, where social norms help safeguarding such cooperation. Many societies have norms of prosociality, while others have norms that foster anti-social behavior like corrupt collaboration. These contradicting sets of norms, raise two questions: First, how do groups resolve contradicting norms of rule following when they switch from one environment to the other? Second, to which extent are partners who signal behaviors that are in line with the norms of the respective environment preferred over those who do not? Here we expect rule following and partner choice to be consistent with the norms respective to their environments. We argue for reputation-based partner choice along with partner switching as the underlying mechanisms for driving the effects of environmental consistency. We conclude that over time, groups can adapt to and prefer partnerships consistent with the norms of the environment they are in. 

Social norms such as, for instance, rule following are key for groups and entire societies to function. 

Social norms such as, for instance, rule following guide entire societies. Rule following is [def].  

Cooperation is key for groups and entire societies to function. Norms help to achieve such cooperation [ex]. 

Importantly, social norms are crucial for safeguarding cooperation. Social norms are [def]. Specifically, injunctive norms are [def], while descriptive norms are [def]. Rule following, for example, is widely researched. [research]. [example].

## Methods

**RQ**
1. Do individuals follow rules differently across environments? / Can switching from a corrupt environment to a fair environment make individuals more rule following?
2. And are they chosen differently across those environments? / Are dishonest partners preferred in corrupt environments and prosocial partners preferred in fair environmnents?

**Vars**
- Rule following: 0 - 15 (count)
- Partner choice: 0 / 1
- Dictator game: 1 - 6 
- Die rolling game: 1 - 6 

**Hypotheses**
- rf -> pc (binomial); <-env>: poisson
  - rf -> pc 
  - rf -> pc; <-env>
- pc -> rf (count); <-env>: logistic
  - pc -> rf 
  - pc -> rf; <-env>
  - 
- svo different among: 
  - dictator vs die roll contributions
  - selectors vs deciders 
  - role vs env

- nested models with REML taking intraclass correlation into account [Gelman]
- (poisson) regression models

In this research we first aim to show that partner choice depends on the goals of the chooser. 

Second we expect that competitors adjust their rule following behavior in order to be chosen.

- [] research question
- [] checks in general
- [] check + H1 + surprises
- [] check + H2 + surprises
- [] check + H3 + surprises
- [] surprises in general