# Working Title Goes Here

## Abstract or so

Cooperation is key for groups and societies to function, where social norms help safeguarding such cooperation. Many societies have norms of prosociality, while others have norms that foster anti-social behavior like corrupt collaboration. These contradicting sets of norms, raise two questions: First, how do groups resolve contradicting norms of rule following when they switch from one environment to the other? Second, to which extent are partners who signal behaviors that are in line with the norms of the respective environment preferred over those who do not? Here we expect rule following and partner choice to be consistent with the norms respective to their environments. We argue for reputation-based partner choice along with partner switching as the underlying mechanisms for driving the effects of environmental consistency. We conclude that over time, groups can adapt to and prefer partnerships consistent with the norms of the environment they are in. 

Social norms such as, for instance, rule following are key for groups and entire societies to function. 

Social norms such as, for instance, rule following guide entire societies. Rule following is [def].  

Cooperation is key for groups and entire societies to function. Norms help to achieve such cooperation [ex]. 

Importantly, social norms are crucial for safeguarding cooperation. Social norms are [def]. Specifically, injunctive norms are [def], while descriptive norms are [def]. Rule following, for example, is widely researched. [research]. [example].

# Outline 1

## Cooperation

- Humans frequently cooperate to achieve mutual goals. Successful cooperation can lead to better performance, higher innovation, and better overall outcomes (e.g., Rusbult & Van Lange, 2003). Providing people with the freedom to seek trustworthy partners and abandon free riders helps to develop and safeguard cooperation (Efferson, Roca, Vogt, & Helbing, 2016; Rand, Arbesman, & Christakis, 2011). (Ethical Free Riding: When Honest People Find Dishonest Partners)
 
## Norms

- Centralized Sanctions and Leadership In contrast to most recent experimental studies ofnorms and sanctions, real-world collective action groups generally place restrictions on who can punish whom for violating norms (e.g., Ostrom 2000). For instance, the responsibility for monitoring and sanctioning others’ behaviors might be alternated among group members (O’Gorman et al. 2009) or based implicitly on who has more power or influence in the group (e.g., Przepiorka & Diekmann 2013). Perhaps most commonly, the ability to sanction others’ behaviors is often vested in an explicitly designated leader (van Vugt & De Cremer 1999). (Beyond Altruism: Sociologi)
- descriptive norms influencing behavior: household study on electricity usage in the neighbourhood [ref] 

## Reputation

- REPUTATIONS
In the last decade, perhaps no mechanism promoting cooperation and prosocial behavior has received as much attention as reputation. Once viewed as secondary to material incentives, the reputational rewards that go to those who behave in generous or cooperative ways are now also viewed as a powerful force shaping prosocial action. Researchers generally conceive of reputation as the “set of judgments a community makes about the personal qualities of one of its members” (Emler 1990, p. 171). Here we are particularly concerned with reputational judgments with moral content, specifically judgments of a person’s cooperativeness, trustworthiness, or generosity. (Beyond Altruism: Sociologi)

## Corruption

- no differences in corruption across countries (Cut From the Same Cloth:
Similarly Dishonest Individuals Across Countries)
- In collaborative settings in which people work together, one’s behavior may affect the partner’s behavior. Indeed, unethical behavior, such as helping someone else cheat on an exam, can be learned from observing peers, colleagues, and even strangers (O’Fallon & Butterfield, 2012). Merely seeing someone lie facilitates imitation of such behavior (Kocher, Schudy, & Spantig, 2017; Soraperra et al., 2017), being exposed to norm violations increases subsequent norm violation (Keizer, Lindenberg, & Steg, 2008), and the more prevalent cor- ruption is in a country, the more likely people from that country are to violate rules (Gächter & Schulz, 2016). Furthermore, because people do not like to be excluded (Kurzban & Leary, 2001), and are even willing to violate rules that benefit the group to avoid being excluded (Thau, Derfler-Rozin, Pitesa, Mitchell, & Pillutla, 2015), honest people might adapt their behav- ior and start lying to prevent their dishonest partners from leaving them. (Research Article
Ethical Free Riding: When Honest People Find Dishonest Partners)
- However, cooperation is also an essential part of corruption (Köbis, van Prooijen, Righetti, & Van Lange, 2016; Weisel & Shalvi, 2015). People often engage in corrupt collaboration—the attainment of per- sonal profits by joint acts of rule violation (Weisel & Shalvi, 2015). (Ethical Free Riding: When Honest People Find Dishonest Partners)

### Dishonesty 

- Previous studies have revealed that working with other people leads to more dishonesty than working alone (Conrads, Irlenbusch, Rilke, & Walkowitz, 2013; Gino, Ayal, & Ariely, 2013; Sutter, 2009; Weisel & Shalvi, 2015), prosocial lies breed trust (Levine & Schweitzer, 2015), and working with the same partner over time increases bribery as people develop trust (Abbink, 2004). Outside the laboratory, however, people can often choose how long and with whom to interact. Do dishonest people search for a dishonest partner—a “partner in crime”? dishonesty. Such behavior is comparable with free riding in a public- goods dilemma in which people may profit from others’ contributions to a public good while not contributing themselves (Andreoni, 1988). (Ethical Free Riding: When Honest People Find Dishonest Partners)

## Partner Choice

- The ability to choose partners allows people who are willing to violate rules (in the present case, lie) to increase personal profit by abandoning those who are not willing to cooperate (Reuben & Stephenson, 2013). studies have shown that people do not lie much, even when lying is profitable (Abeler, Nosenzo, & Raymond, 2016); they avoid situations that may tempt them to lie (Fishbach, Friedman, & Kruglanski, 2003); and they prefer to interact with those who are similar (Currarini, Jackson, & Pin, 2009). people care about seeing themselves as moral but at the the same time seek to maximize personal profit (Mazar, Amir, & Ariely, 2008). To maintain such an honest self- image, people use various self-serving justifications when violating rules (Ayal & Gino, 2011; Shalvi, Gino, Barkan, & Ayal, 2015). (Ethical Free Riding: When Honest People Find Dishonest Partners)

# Outline 2

## Overview

**Hypotheses**
1. Participants will change their rule following over time. 
   1. Rule following will increase in the fair environment and
   2. decrease in the dishonest environment
2. Rule-following spills over across environments 
3. Participants prefer partners who 
   1. violate rules more often in the corrupt environment and 
   2. partners who follow rules more often in the fair environment

**Structure**
- cooperation
  - signaling theory
  - reciprocity
  - reputation
- partner choice
  - biological markets
  - partner switching
- social environments
  - biological markets
  - social norms
    - rule following and norms / corrupt collaboration and common norms
    - envs exacerbate: competitive altruism / corruption breeds corruption
    - anchoring environments

## Intro

### In a nutshell

Cooperation such as rule following, for instance, is key for societies to function. [def]. [ex]. However, cooperation is not prosocial per se. Instead, groups can also collaborate to violate rules. Previous research has hightlighted the importance of incentives in social environments and partner choice in solving these seemingly contradictory behaviors. 

Environments
When in groups, those individuals who are able to choose others for partnership, prefer those who signal their willingness to reciprocate, and with increasing availability of partners, competitors become increasingly altruistic. 

Reversely, instead of signaling altruism, competitors can also signal their willigness to defect, especially in anonymous settings. Similarly to altruism, corruption has been shown to breed corruption. [ex]. 

In addition, rule following has been shown to carry over when switching from one social environment to another, with each environment having its own social norms. Specifically, norms have been shown to carry over to corrupt environments. [milinski]. 

Partner choice
Not only social environments have been shown to influence rule following, but partner choice as well. Specifically, individuals who are able to choose group members for partnership can choose to include or exclude members, thereby enforcing desirable behaviors as well as implicitly punishing less desirable behaviors. 

### Argument in more detail (maybe for the discussion)

Individuals compete to choose and be chosen for social interactions. This is called a biological market. But unlike economic markets where goods and services are traded, biological markets mainly focus on the ability and willingness to benefit others. For instance, peers, non-peers [ex]. Biological markets are therefore a place where individuals are required to cooperate through quality signaling and partner choice. However, markets do not exist in a vacuum, rather, in an environment that shapes interactions through its incentive structure, and it is this structure that can shape individuals' signals and which partners they choose. 

Cooperation can be both costly and beneficial. To mitigate costs individuals therefore draw on signals of trustworthiness. Specifically, signals of indirect reciprocity are commonly used as an index of such trustworthiness through reputation. Since people update their public opinions of others, they are also suspect to such updating by others and, in turn, manage their own reputation. 

Partner choice is an integral part of biological markets. [def]. Those who choose have been shown to prefer the willingness to confer benefits over the availability to do so. [ex]. In addition, those choosing have been shown to enforce which qualities are desirable by excluding competitors to maximize their profit. [ex]. However, who gets chosen has been found to be conditional on the goals of the individual choosing. For instance, in a prosocial environment individuals prosocial behavior is preferred [ref] and, therefore, leads to cooperation. [ex]. However, individuals also cooperate to corrupt. In fact, in a corrupt environment, people have been shown to prefer corrupt collaboration, the joint violation of rules for the sake of gaining benefits. H1. 

Moreover, both prosociality and corrupt collaboration can manifest as social norms over time. Social norms are commonly defined as behaviors that should be commonly acted out (i.e., injunctive norms) or are indeed commonly acted out (i.e., descriptive norms). [ex]. Previous research has examined these concepts by looking at rule-following behavior. In addition, behavior has been shown to breed behavior with prosociality increasing the frequency of following prosociality. Specifically, [blabla] have shown the impact of descriptive norms of a neighborhood on household electricity consumption. Similarly, corruption has been shown to breed corruption. [blabla] has shown that. 

#### From Costly Signaling to Reputation Management

When individuals cooperate, all involved parties have to consider both the costs and the benefits. Importantly, costs can be exploitation attempts, risks that are better avoided if possible. To shield themselves from being exploited, individuals evaluate how trustworthy others are. [ex]. Individuals readily signal their trustworthiness. For instance, charity [ex]. Importantly, signals are considered reliable when they are rather costly for some to perform or others do not possess the qualities in the first place. [ex]. Therefore, cooperation requires trustworthiness among the parties involved as a safety mechanism. 

Reciprocity is a well-documented way of safeguarding cooperation and is most likely when group members know each other. Evolutionary mechanisms, for instance, point to kin selection where individuals are more likely to reciprocate help from relatives than non-relatives, and group selection where individuals serve the existence of a group and, thereby, reciprocate. However, in the face of globalization, individuals interact less frequently and do not necessarily know each other which, in turn, gradually removes incentives to reciprocate. [ex]. Therefore, cooperation in anonymous groups requires another mechanism. 

Indirect reciprocity is such a way of safeguarding cooperation when group members do not know each other and social interactions are limited to one. This form of reciprocity occurs when an observer helps an individual because the observer saw that individual helping someone else. [ex]. Indirect reciprocity is the underlying mechanism of reputation, the public opinion of a person [def]. [ex]. Therefore, individuals use the reputation of others to evaluate whether they are a good interaction partner. 
  
Reputation has been described as a universal currency for social interactions, and individuals treat it as such. The concept of the updating strategy is based on individuals keeping score of others' and their signals. Within this concept, various models conceptualize reputation differently. For example, the standing strategy explains how, in the context of helping, all group members already start with a good reputation score and can loose their good standing if they fail to help, thus, reducing their score. However, this model did not prevail over the scoring strategy. The scoring model holds that group members' reputation scores rise and fall with their acts of help. [ex]. Such updating strategies are reasons for individuals to deliberately manage their reputation, also called reputation management. [ex]. Therefore, individuals manage and care about others' impressions of them. 

#### Partner Choice in Biological Markets

Reputation management is vital for biological markets where individuals compete to choose and be chosen as interaction partners. Unlike economic markets where goods and services are traded, biological markets focus on the ability and willingness to benefit others. Hunter-gatherer tribes, peers [ex]. Importantly, the willingness to benefit is more important than the ability to do so. For instance, [blabla] found that generosity prevails over productivity [ex]. Reputation, therefore, plays a vital role in biological markets.

However, in a market, supply commonly follows demand. Specifically, individuals compete to be chosen but also choose who they want to interact with such as their partners, friends, and colleagues at work, a concept we refer to here as partner choice. Importantly, reputation helps individuals choosing good interaction partners [ex]. Therefore, if competitors do not have a desirable reputation they will not be chosen as partners and will thus miss out on potential benefits [ex]. Partner choice, therefore, creates selection pressures for competitors.  

Which qualities are considered desirable is conditional on the goals of the individual choosing. For instance, in a prosocial environment, signals of prosociality are preferred [ref] and, therefore, lead to cooperation. [ex]. However, individuals also cooperate to corrupt. In fact, in a corrupt environment, people have been shown to prefer corrupt collaboration, the joint violation of rules for the sake of gaining benefits. [ex]. H1.  

#### Cooperation Within and Across Environments

Both prosociality and corrupt collaboration can increase in frequency in the form of social norms over time. Social norms are commonly defined as common behaviors that either should be acted out (i.e., injunctive norms) or are indeed acted out (i.e., descriptive norms). [ex]. For instance, previous research has examined social norms in prosocial environments with prosocial behavior increasing future acts of prosociality over time. For instance, [blabla] competitive altruism. Similar to prosocial behavior, corruption has been shown to breed corruption. [blabla] has shown that. H2.

Moreover, social environments have been shown to interact when individuals switch from one environment to another. Specifically, when participants were exposed to a prosocial environment followed by a dishonest environment, the participants were more prosocial in the corrupt environment than if they had not been exposed to the prosocial environment in the first place. For instance, [blabla] has shown that cooperation stayed high when reputation. Also, when the environments were reversed, participants became more corrupt. [blablabla] has shown that. H3.

## Methods

### Procedure and Materials

Participants were assigned to groups of four (n = 48 groups) and seated in separate cubicles at Leiden University. In each group, one participant was randomly assigned to the role of the "partner selector". The other three participants were assigned to the role of the "deciders". All participants completed 30 rounds with each round consisting of three stages. 

In the first stage, deciders had to complete a rule following task [ref]. Deciders received 15 balls that they could put in either a blue bucket or a yellow bucket. The blue bucket earned them 5 points, the yellow bucket earned them 15 points with 100 points converting to €1.00. Importantly, deciders were instructed that "the rule is to put the ball in the blue bucket". Violating the rule, however, was not sanctioned and following the rule was therefore a costly signal through which deciders could gain reputation instead. 

In the second stage, all participants received feedback about the rule following scores of all deciders. Subsequently, partner selectors had to choose at least one of the deciders as their interaction partner for stage three. Choosing more partners could potentially multiply the partner selector's gains by the number of partners they chose. Similarly, deciders could gain more points in the third stage if they were chosen but missed out if they were not chosen. Partner selectors were therefore in a position to include and exclude deciders from interactions from any given round, laying the foundation for shaping behaviors that were considered desirable and behaviors that were not. 

In the third stage, there were two environments that partner selectors and their chosen partners went through. One environment facilitated prosociality, a dictator game (DG; [ref]), where prosocial behavior benefitted the partner selector. Each partner received 500 points and had to split the amount between themselves and the partner selector. In steps of 50 points, partners then gave an amount 0 < *x* < 250 to the partner selector and kept the remaining points. Partners therefore allocated points fairly if they split the amount in half. However, partners allocated points selfishly if they kept all points for themselves. In this scenario, the partner selector missed out and, as a consequence, should prefer prosocial partners. Both selectors and their partners received feedback about the points allocated and the rule following score obtained. 

Another environment facilitated dishonesty, a die-rolling task (DRT; [ref]) where dishonesty benefitted the partner selector. Each chosen decider had to roll a die with a cup and report that die roll. The reported outcome then determined the payoff of the decider and the partner selector with both earning the same amount. In steps of 50, reporting a one earned them 0 points while reporting a six earned them 250 points. Deciders did not face adverse consequences for lying, making lying a beneficial behavior. Partner selectors were therefore more likely to miss out when their partners were honest and, consequently, should prefer dishonest partners. 

At the end of the third stage, both partner selectors and chosen deciders received feedback about the amounts they earned along with the rule following scores from stage one. After the third stage, the next round began. The feedback allowed partner selectors to dynamically learn the rule following of deciders, and deciders learned whether rule following was desirable or not. 

After 30 rounds, each participant completed two tasks. In the first task, they had to complete the social value orientation [ref] scale by themselves. Participants had to indicate how they would split various scenarios of amounts between themselves and others. They were more prosocial if their allocations benefitted the other. In the second task, participants reported a single die roll by themselves. The outcome counted towards their individual payoffs. Similar to before, participants were more dishonest if they reported a six because of its likelihood. 

### Analysis Plan

In this research we aim to show that rule following determines partner choice which also depends on the environment, so the DG and DRG. We will use hierarchical regression models to account for the intraclass correlations since our data is nested in groups [ref]. We will fit our model to the data using poisson regression and add predictors step-wise. 

Second we expect the reverse where partner selectors regulate deciders' rule following depending on the environment. We will apply hierarchical logistic regression to fit this model. At the end of each analysis, we will explore any surprising outcomes. 


## Results

- were more rule following deciders always preferred? 

### Manipulation Checks

- [] Dictator Game
- [] Die-Roll Task
- [] Partner choice
- [] SVO

### H1

- [] additional checks
- [] hypothesis testing
- [] conclusion
- [] surprises

### H2

- [] additional checks
- [] hypothesis testing
- [] conclusion
- [] surprises

### H3

- [] additional checks
- [] hypothesis testing
- [] conclusion
- [] surprises

## Discussion

Cooperation such as rule-following, for instance, is key to the functioning of societies. For instance, policy makers, legislators, and university councils all establish and administrate rules. People can be prosocial, follow rules, and therewith act in the best interest of a group as a whole. Cooperation, however, is not always prosocial. Instead, people can defect as a collective in the face of better benefits, a concept called corrupt collaboration [ref]. This form of corruption only benefits those defecting and comes at the expense of others. While the consequences of prosocial behavior are largely considered positive [ref] with examples of moral character [ref] and trustworthiness [ref], the consequences of corrupt collaboration can be disastrous. [ex] For instance, . We, therefore, have to investigate when groups cooperate for prosocial reasons and when groups corrupt.

- [] summary of study 
- [] summary of results

### Theoretical Implications

- [] student sample

### Value For Literature

## Conclusion

